---
title: "Singing the Blues"
---

> It was sad music, but it waved the sadness like a battle flag. It said the universe had dine all it could, but you were still alive. - Terry Pratchett, Soul Music

I've loved the blues ever since my late teens. This Terry Pratchett quote to me embodies exactly what I love about it. This spirit of defiance in the face of adversity. In many ways it's the opposite of toxic positivity.

Instead of trying to find the good in everything it very much takes the position that suffering is part of life and inevitable. The world isn't fair and there is nothing we can do about it, but that doesn't mean we have to like it. 

I identify with this attitude a lot. I'm not a big guy and I don't do bluster. But I'm tenacious, tough and resilient. If you fight me you might win, but I'll make you pay for it all the way.

I have a huge issue with the blues though. Some of it is so _fucking toxic_. Its traditions are deeply entrenched in traditional relationships, lyrics will talk about having to "shoot your woman because she's messing around with too many men.". All I can think of is: "I have some good poly books you might want to read." and "Have you tried talking to her?"

It's making it hard to enjoy it now. 

I know I'm hardly alone in this. Anybody who values trans right and grew up loving Harry Potter will know the feeling. As Anita Sarkeesian famously said: "It's possible to enjoy a piece of media and at the same time be critical of it."

I still enjoy Lovecraftian horror, despite being aware that H.P. Lovecraft was a horrible racist and some of his stories just turn your stomach with the dog-whistles.

Ultimately I've reached a compromise with myself. In the same way that I won't read certain stories by Lovecraft, I'll also use my skip button liberally. I won't throw out the child with the bathwater.

Also, there are blues artists that do bring messages I can 100% agree with. The late Candye Kane was a big advocate for fat acceptance and for sex workers. I was lucky enough to see her play live before she passed and I'll always treasure that experience.

The blues will always be in my heart. I'm hoping it can grow along with us.
